feat(containers): v1 api (#6172)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/serverless-containers/reference-content/v1-migration-guide.mdx

---
title: Serverless Containers v1beta1 to v1
description: Discover the new features and changes introduced in the Serverless Containers v1 API.
tags: containers serverless-containers migration api v1 serverless
dates:
  validation: 2026-02-09
  posted: 2026-02-09
---

# Overview of the v1 API evolution

The transition from `v1beta1` to `v1` for Scaleway Serverless Containers introduces significant improvements in security, resource management, and flexibility.
While the transition is designed to be as smooth as possible, users of the API, CLI, and Terraform should note several key updates to field names and behaviors.

> Scope of this document is only for Serverless Containers. Serverless Functions and Serverless Jobs API remains the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes outlined in this document only concern Serverless Containers. The Serverless Functions and Serverless Jobs APIs remains the same.
```

* **Self-managed credentials:** For SQS and NATS triggers, you now provide your own IAM credentials. This improvement prevents accidental trigger failures caused by deleted system-generated credentials and enables more freedom on setups (triggering a Scaleway container from SQS queue hosted on your Instance).

### Automatic Deployment

In the `v1` API, the `deploy = true` flag is no longer required. Any call to `CreateContainer` or an update will now automatically deploy the container immediately. This aligns Serverless Containers with the standard behavior of all other Scaleway products.

### Auth with IAM

JWT auth is being gradually deprecated in favor of IAM tokens. The deprecation will be effective once IAM tokens can provide the same granularity of JWT. [Read more](/serverless-functions/how-to/migrate-jwt-to-iam-authentication/).

### Container Registry namespaces

Creating a Serverless Containers namespace no longer creates a `funcscw` Container Registry namespace automatically.

This change allows for greater control over the organization of Container Registry namespaces, and avoids quota errors when creating Container Namespaces.

### Health Checks

> 

Author: added
